python programming
    python is a high-level programming language - designed to be easy to read and write.
    python was createdm in 1991, by a dutch programmer - Guido Van Rossum.
    it was first released on 20th feb, 1991
    python is general purpose programming language

basic syntax and datatypes:

variable 
    python is case sensitive
    list - collection of items
    list are mutable can change update, add, delete the element

    tuple are immutable can't be changed

    dictionary collection of key and value pair


    set is helpful for store unique element, it's does not duplicate entries.
    set is unorder collection of unique element

Operators and Expressions

input funtion: is an in-built funtion in python. input funtion displays a prompt to the user, wait for their input, and then returns that input as a string.
               
string method: are built-in functions that allow you to manipulate your string

string format: is a way to insert dynamic values into a string.

collection datatypes:

set:

union : union of two sets combines all the unique elements from both the sets

intersection : intersection of two sets contains only the elements that are common to both sets

difference : difference of two sets contains the elements that are in the first set but not in the second set


conditions and loops:

if elif else: conditional statements are used to make decisions in your program.

loop : loops are a way to repeat a block of code multiple times.

while loop : while loop executes the code as long as a condition is true / met

nested for loop: nested for loop is like loop inside another loop.

functions:
functions let you write your code in such a way that it is organized, Reusable and easy to debug.
debugging is the process of finding errors in your code.

lambda function: lambda dunction is a tiny / one line function, it doesn't need a name, That's why we call it anonymous function.

map functions : map function applies a given function to each item of an iterable.

file handling:

create a file, read a file, write into a file, etc. type of operations are called file handling.

write mode: write mode is used to write something into the existing file.

with file statement: with is a context manager, it manages the resources effectively